Hello there.
My name is Erica Ingram
and I am an experienced software engineer
seeking a remote or hybrid position
with new challenges,
more responsibilities,
and new things to learn.
Since my background
is pretty non-traditional,
I'm here to tell you a little bit about me
and how we can connect
if you like what you see.
I did not become a software engineer via
the traditional route.
For 13 years I owned and operated
a transcription business remotely.
I didn't have a lot of capital, so
I needed to do a lot of the labor myself.
That included a website
and also eventually software to help me
focus more on the transcribing work
rather than on the many unpaid
administrative tasks
that are required in such a business.
So I learned to code.
I built my own website
and over several years
my own transcript management software.
Since I was already
incredibly familiar with Office
from being a transcriber,
I wrote this software
with Visual Basic in the Office IDE.
My company's transcripts were
truly unique and had features
that no other companies' did.
The software integrated with Word, Excel,
Publisher, Outlook Express, Scribe, FTR
Player, Acrobat, Wunderlist and PayPal,
among others.
I built a speech recognition
engine using batch files and PocketSphinx
and then integrated that engine
into an Access database.
I cleaned up and automated
feeding all the data,
audio and transcripts, to the engine
so it can learn.
My clients often struggled
with researching
and later referencing
cases and rules mentioned in hearings.
This manual research process
takes considerable time and effort,
especially when you are not familiar
with how the legal system works.
I automated this research process
by creating a system
that identifies and formats
and hyperlinks citations and generates
a table of authorities using VB
and the CourtListener API.
It categorized each citation
into one of three types of references
and my innovative solution
improved efficiency for and saved
valuable time and effort for clients
up to dozens of hours for each client
per transcript.
Truly, I love doing all
that so much that when I found Lambda,
I knew what I needed to do.
I love building things
and solving problems, so of course
at that point I wanted to do it
full time and permanently.
In 2019, I attended Lambda School,
now called BloomTech,
which is a vocational academy
that offers a nine month
full stack web development program.
And I graduated in July 2020.
The program taught me a JavaScript
Node, PostgreSQL, React stack.
While in school, I operated my business
for 20 to 30 hours a week
and went to school for
over 40 hours a week.
I also served as tech lead for the school
for six of those nine months
where my team consisted of seven
plus students.
I am a lifelong learner,
so ever since I left school
I have read and studied one tech book
approximately every couple of weeks,
spending around 10 to 30 hours
per week on professional development.
And I now use AI to help me read, consume
and learn more material than ever.
My first
position post-Lambda was remote
as a software engineer
at Clearcover Insurance, an insurtech
based out of Chicago, Illinois.
I worked there for about 14 months
before I was promoted and left to join
SoFi a couple of months later.
I built features and fixed bugs there
on a Kotlin JavaScript,
TypeScript, PostgreSQL, React stack.
One challenge I took on it
Clearcover was when they needed a robust
welcome email system to engage
customers effectively
and provide essential information
when onboarding.
My task was to create the
infrastructure for the welcome
email system,
which would send emails to every customer
upon policy purchase.
I developed the entire system, pulling info
from Kafka events, incorporating
attachments and authentication links.
The process involved data
transfer through multiple services
and rigorous unit testing.
This welcome email system reaching every
single customer, played a pivotal role
in enhancing Clearcover's customer
onboarding process, and communicating.
SoFi is a fintech providing banking, credit
card, investment
loans and other related services
through their tech platform.
At SoFi, I worked on several teams
first supporting their
financial insight product,
and then their credit card product,
and lastly, their investor product.
I worked on a Kotlin Java PostgreSQL
React stack and also a couple of Ruby
and Angular services.
A product I worked on at SoFi
had initially prioritized
its launch over optimization,
resulting in numerous
duplicative and suboptimal
API calls within the system.
These issues adversely affected
the speed and efficiency
of customer interactions
with this product.
My task was to optimize that product
cycle, identify inefficiencies
and propose a solution
to enhance the customer experience
while reducing waste.
I began by thoroughly documenting
and diagramming various
aspects of the system
which lacked proper documentation.
I then conducted a detailed analysis
to pinpoint
duplicative and suboptimal API calls.
This analysis included
quantifying the financial and time costs
associated with these inefficiencies.
To make a compelling
case for optimization,
I calculated potential savings
for both customers and our organization.
With a solid plan in place
I executed that optimization strategy,
and through my efforts,
I successfully identified
and resolved the duplicative
and suboptimal API calls significantly
improving the product's performance.
Customers experienced enhanced
speed and efficiency when using related
services, leading to
increased satisfaction of course.
Additionally, our organization benefited
from cost savings and improved resource
allocation, making the optimization
efforts a worthwhile investment.
This optimization initiative
not only resolved
technical inefficiencies,
but also contributed
to a better customer experience
and a more efficient resource utilization.
I received some recommendations
on LinkedIn,
two of them from direct managers
at SoFi, and another two from former
SoFi colleagues who worked
with me side by side every day.
They all speak to
my soft skills
and I've listed here some examples,
but I highly recommend
you visit my LinkedIn recommendations
to see what they had to say about me
in full.
I'm a high performing team player.
I learn quickly and I get results,
As you can tell from this video,
I will always bring my A-game
and I will take my resourcefulness,
discipline, empathy, respect, problem
solving, ability,
teamwork and grit with me wherever I land.
If you have something that you think
I'd be a great fit for, you can contact me
in the ways you see here, which are all provided
on my portfolio below this video.
Thanks for watching and you have a great day.